Bret Finley
CS 564
Assignment 5 - Final Project
Visualization Techniques

1) Included Files
data/ - Directory containing various data files. "test.csv" is a cut down file
	that I've been using for most tests.
images/ - Directory containing images for the MarkerCluster library for Google
	Maps.
lib/ - Directory that contains library scripts and style sheets for the project.
	I use a number of third party software packages and they all can be found
	here.
node_modules/ - This directory is created when the user runs the "npm install"
	command in order to initialize the project. This directory contans pertinent
	node software modules which the server uses in order to operate.
.gitignore - Ignore file for GitHub, which I've been using for source control.
app.js - Angular module declaration file. The project became too unwieldly to
	house in a single script, AngularJS became necessary in orer to better
	modularize my project.
barchart.html - Template file for the barchart view of the visualization.
bargraph.js - This JavaScript file provides the programming logic for the
	bargraph. This includes D3 code as well as data aggregation when the
	over-arching dataset changes.
controller.js - Main controller file. This is the only controller in the
	application, most logic can be found here.
heatmap.html - Template file for the heatmap view of the visualization.
heatmap.js - This JavaScript file contains the programming logic for the
	heatmap. This includes D3 code as well as data aggregation when the
	over-arching dataset changes.
index.html - This is the main HTML file for executing the application. This
	contains all of the relevant markup for the project and contains some
	Angular templating
index.js - Server file. This contains all of the NodeJS code for executing the
	backend, as well as serving HTML files and crime data.
package.json - Node project dependency file which keeps track of all of the node
	packages which this applicaiton uses. The command "node install" will need
	to be run in order to install these packages prior to execution.
README - This readme documentation file.
services.js - Angular services module. This file contains reusable library code
	for the rest of the project. Things like data access and date formatting are
	done here.

2) Running
This project requires an installation of NodeJS on the server machine. NodeJS
comes with the Node Package Manager which can be used to install relevant
packages needed to run the application. Node can be downloaded at the following
url: https://nodejs.org/en/. Once Node has been downloaded and installed on the
server machine, the command "npm" should be available to you. Simply change into
the top level directory (which contains the package.json file) and run the
command "npm install". This will look at the dependencies required by the
project and downloaded and install them locally. Once the packages have been
installed, to run the server program, simply run "node index.js" from the same
directory. This will execute the server script and start an HTTP server running
on port 3000, or whichever port has been specified within the server script.
Simply browse to http://localhost:3000/ to view the running application.

3) Data
The data being visualized is a collection of reported crimes occuring within the
city of Chicago, Illinois. These records have been sampled between January 1,
2001, and Novembe 1, 2016. These records contain a variety of dimensions.

ID - Unique identifier for the case.
Case Number - Incremental numberic value representing that particular case.
Date - Datetime on which the crime was reported.
Block - City block on which the crime was reported.
IUCR - Illinois Uniformed Crime Reporting number used to classify crimes.
Primary Type - Category denoting the kind of criminal activity.
Location Description - Brief description of the location of the crime.
Arrest - Boolean value for whether or not an arrest was made.
Domestic - Boolean value for whether or not the crime was a domestic dispute.
Beat - The police beat this crme occurred on.
District - City district this crime occurred in.
Ward - City Ward in which the crime occurred.
Community Area - 1 of the 77 community areas of Chicago.
FBI Code - Identifier for mapping between numbers and offense categories.
Year - The calendar year in which the crime was reported.
Updated On - Datetime on which the record was last updated.
Latitude - Geographical latitude value where the crime was reported.
Longitude - Geographical longitude value where the crime was reported.
Location - Combination of latitude and longitude values.

4) Project
This project is meant to give the user the ability to explore the crime history
surrounding the city of Chicago, Illinois. Though the data is pulled from the
last 15 years, there is still a lot to explore and discover concerning different
demographics of crime and how they releate to the different areas of Chicago.
Presently, the project consists of a few different views. At the top of the
application is a form for filtering what I call the "top-level" dataset. This
pretains to the data shown on the map in the left half of the screen. Users
will be able to filter by year, type, and I want to add community area as well.
Right now the filtering function doesn't work. The map view shows markers which
pretain to a single instance of a reported crime within the city of Chicago. The
colored circles show the number of markers present near that location. Clicking
on these circles dives deeper into the map, giving the user a more granular view
of the data. Eventually the user will get to an individual marker, which they
can click. This will open an info window which will present some information
concerning that crime in particular. Adjacent to the map is a table view of the
crimes that are currently visible on the map. When the user pans the map around
this will update the data displayed within the table. Each row in the table has
a button which will pan the map to that crime's location.

Going forward, I'd like to include some kind of histogram, or other D3 artifcat
which will help the user explore the data more in-dept. I would like to have two
views at the bottom of the screen. The first view could show an overfiew
histogram of all of the aggregated data in the visualization. This could show
the various types and amounts of crime distributed between Chicago's 77
community areas. I may even try to add a combo box which allows the user to
select which criteria to group the histogram with. The next screen I think will
be a histogram of the local area of the map. This will show similar data to the
other histogram, but will consist of only the data which is shown on the current
map screen. I want this histogram to update in realtime so the user can get a
feel as to trends in criminal activity depending on where they pan the map view.